=head1 NAME

pts_source - Read pts commands from a file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts source> S<<< [B<-file>] <I<file name>> >>> S<<< [B<-cell>] <I<cell name>> >>>
   [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-force>] [B<-auth>] [B<-encrypt>] [B<-help>]
   S<<< [B<-config> <I<config directory>>] >>>

B<pts so> S<<< [B<-f>] <I<file name>> >>> S<<< [B<-c>] <I<cell name>> >>>
   [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-f>] [B<-h>] [B<-a>] [B<-e>] S<<< [B<-co> <I<config directory>>] >>>

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts source> runs commands from a file as if they were typed in B<pts
interactive> mode. The command can be run from the command line or
interactively.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Prior to OpenAFS 1.4.5 and OpenAFS 1.5.23, the B<pts source> command was
only available on Unix or Linux and when OpenAFS was compiled with the
supergroups option (disabled by default).  As of OpenAFS 1.4.5 and 1.5.23,
it is always available.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<pts source> takes the following options:

=over 4

=item B<-file> <I<file name>>

Specifies the file name to read commands from. The commands in the given file
are run as if they were typed in pts interactive mode.

=item B<-auth>

Use the calling user's tokens to communicate with the Protection Server. For
more details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-config> <I<config directory>>

Use an alternate config directory. For more details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-encrypt>

Encrypts any communication with the Protection Server. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> 
or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command shows the output of each command in the file as if it were
run normally.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example of using B<pts source> in a B<pts interactive> session:

   % echo examine admin > /tmp/commands.txt 
   % pts interactive
   pts> source /tmp/commands.txt
   Name: admin, id: 1, owner: system:administrators, creator: anonymous,
     membership: 2, flags: S----, group quota: 20.
   pts> quit
   %

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_interactive(1)>,
L<pts_quit(1)>,
L<pts_sleep(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
