What's in the "doc" subdirectory

** doc/html
original IBM html doc, no longer used

** doc/man-pages
pod sources for man pages (converted from original IBM html source).

** doc/xml
xml sources for manuals (converted from original IBM html source).  there is
some generated pdf/html content as well for the curious.

Note that doc/xml/AdminReference uses doc/xml/AdminReference/pod2refentry to
convert the pod man pages to xml for printing.  pod goes directly to html
just fine.

The reference guide is now built by converting the existing pod documentation
to xml.  however, the indexing information was lost during the initial pod
conversion.  Someone we will need to try to get that back.

** doc/pdf
old Transarc (and possibly pre-Transarc) protocol and API documentation for
which we have no other source

** doc/txt
doc/examples
a few other miscellaneous files.


From: Russ Allbery

The Administrative Reference has been converted into separate POD man pages
for each command, since that's basically what it already was (just in HTML).
Considerable work remains to update that POD documentation to reflect the
current behavior of OpenAFS (for example, there's no documentation of
dynroot, no mention of Kerberos v5, many fileserver options are
undocumented, the afsd switch documentation is out of date, and so forth).
I've collected as many of those deficiencies as I know of in
doc/man-pages/README.  Any contributions to correct any of those deficiencies
are very welcome.  This is one easy place to start.

The other reference manuals (the Administrator's Guide, the Quick Start
Guide, and the User's Guide) are more manual-like in their structure.  After
some on-list discussion, we picked DocBook as the format to use going
forward and the existing HTML files have been converted to DocBook with a
script.  This means that the markup could use a lot of cleaning up and the
content is even less updated than the man pages.

I did some *very* initial work on the Quick Start Guide, just to get the
makefile working and to try some simple modifications.  Simon Wilkinson is
currently working on making more extensive modifications.  If you want to
work on the Quick Start Guide, please coordinate with him to avoid duplicate
work.

The Administrator's Guide and User's Guide have not yet been touched.  Of
those, the latter is probably in the best shape, in that the user commands
and behavior haven't changed as much.  If you'd like to start working on one
of those, that would also be great.
